---
permalink: "/avgb/weblogpomo2024/index.html"
title: "Dare I commit to trying to post once a day for an entire month when we all know that my tolerance for obligation is basically nonexistent?"
date: 2024-04-29T04:13:00.000Z
---

I think if you possess even a cursory awareness of me and my writing habits, the last thing you would anticipate I’d willingly participate in is a month long daily blogging challenge. Well buckle up, motherfuckers, because May is about to get embarrassing!

WeblogPoMo2024, the brainchild of [Annie](https://weblog.anniegreens.lol/weblog-posting-month-2024), is exactly what it says on the tin: if you have a Weblog, you try to Po every day for a Mo. This particular PoMo happens to begin May 1. **Wow! That’s alarmingly soon!**

Have you really considered what it would be like to see a post from me once (or more!) a day for 31 days? Neither have I. We’re both in for disappointment! If there’s anything I love more than publicly committing to trends, it’s publicly abandoning them in a very short timeframe.

Luckily, I have an anchor to keep me on track and motivated: I am going to write about 31 songs. Songs that I love. Songs that I have strong emotional attachments to. Songs that have helped me through tough times. Songs that I just dance around my house to while shaking my butt and scaring my dog. Do I know what I’m going to say about these songs? No! I don’t even have the list of songs yet! I gotta do that. Wednesday is… close. Oh god what have I done.

Anyway, stay tuned I guess. Just keep refreshing my website over and over. Check out [other participants](https://weblog.anniegreens.lol/weblog-posting-month-2024/participators)! Participate yourself! The possibilities are well and truly limitless.[^1]

_Update (April 30, 2024): I made_ [_the playlist_](https://music.apple.com/us/playlist/weblogpomo2024-playlist/pl.u-55D6Pp3io8Jy5)_. Even if I don’t finish all the posts, at least you have this to rock out to. It’s good._

_Update (May 5, 2024):_ [_Henry_](https://www.henryleach.com/) _graciously made a copy of the_ [_playlist for all you Spotify folks_](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/60CgCXnsn8Agl9hNWKdtQl?si=d1a82cc834d44862) _out there. Cheers!_


[^1]: Possibilities limited. Please see provider for details. The views expressed in this blog post belong to a moron and do not reflect the opinions of WeblogPoMo2024 or any reasonable person. Not eligible in all regions. No purchase necessary. Offer void in AZ, IL, IN, MO, NE, NM, NY, PA, and Wales. Keenan is not responsible for any feelings of disappointment, anger, or ennui experienced as a result of reading any of their blog posts.
