---
permalink: "/avgb/he-sees/index.html"
title: "He sees (or: “Bishuf”)"
date: 2024-05-13T22:26:00.000Z
---

Today is day 13 of WeblogPoMo2024, a month long daily blogging challenge. I’m challenging myself to write about a song each day, but there are many other people writing about other things. You should [check them out](https://weblog.anniegreens.lol/weblog-posting-month-2024/participators)!

Today’s song is “Bishuf” by Mashrou’ Leila.

* * *
<iframe class="youtube" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/bdE1yxviySo?si=n7R_IU0HXJyYVffq" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

I joined Tinder and Bumble because I was sad.[^1] Mere weeks before, I ended my first marriage after 12 years together. Upon witnessing the destruction I wrought, I realized that my social group had largely been comprised of people who were, in actuality, my ex's friends. People who were nice to me at the time because we were together. People who were not interested in my side of the story when I left. People with whom I have not spoken since. It was a devastating reminder that I spent much of that relationship on autopilot, doing my best to navigate a complex battlefield of dueling mental illnesses, flagellating myself for my numerous misdeeds, and, you know, just basically trying to hold it all together each day (spoilers: I did a bad job!).

The moment I realized something was very wrong was a light switch being flicked on. I spent so much time fumbling around in the dark, trying to be a good partner because the relationship was—at least on paper—good! We fought, but every couple fights, right? We had our ups. We had our downs. But we shared interests! We liked a lot of the same music. The same movies and shows. Similar senses of humor. We had _so much in common_. Surely, that must have been enough.

But I wasn't happy. I hadn't been for a long time, and I was oblivious to this fact until the light flicked on, illuminating the piles of detritus I shoveled away into a windowless room over the years. In the corner, a single, small deteriorating box labeled "ME," that was nearly empty. It was impossible to unsee. Even if the switch flicked back off, the ghostly haze of all of the _stuff_ would linger, forever burned into my retinas.

So I left. I ran. And I felt free, and I felt angry, and I felt lost, and I felt sad—look, people are fucking complicated. Relationships with people are complicated. Ending relationships with people is complicated.

Grief is complicated.

So there I was. 31 years-_old_. Newly single after more than a decade. Trying to figure out how to find people to connect with and turning to—_Christ_—dating apps. Like, I know I'm not the first person to ever lament the fact that it's pretty bleak to have your entire existence boiled down to a single profile page, dismissed as quickly as you're seen with the flick of a finger, but it's even worse when you're suddenly thrust into this new social hellscape and all you want to do is talk to someone. I wasn't there to get laid. That's not _my vibe._[^2]

What was I supposed to do? Approach strangers in public? Tell them, "Hey, like, I'm basically broken and trying to figure out how to put the pieces together. Would you talk to me like a person?"

Most conversations ended as quickly as they started. Though I did meet up with one woman _two times_ as a result. The first time, to reinforce my commitment (for both of us) to not wanting to dive into some whole romantic thing, I suggested we meet up at a Taco Bell Cantina. For the uninitiated, that's a Taco Bell where they also serve alcohol. It's as awesome and depressing as it sounds. _¡Live más!_

The second time, we met up for dinner at a nicer restaurant and eventually made our way back to her place, where she decided that she wanted to watch reruns of the old sitcom, _Dinosaurs_. Like I said, I wasn't there to get laid, and apparently neither was she.

We never talked again.

The only other meaningful conversation I had was with a woman whose name I can't remember. Carolyn, maybe? Let's call her Carolyn. Carolyn was really nice and talked to me about music. We traded songs back and forth for about a week, and, look, if you've read any of my other pieces from this month, you know where this is going.

She sent me "Bishuf," a song from a Lebanese band called Mashrou' Leila. She told me about how the lead singer was queer, and a lot of the themes of their music centered on the counterculture experience in a much more conservative society.[^3]

I wasn't able to verify, since they sing in Arabic, and I failed my one semester of Arabic in college. But, as is so often the case with me, the words didn't matter, because I felt what it was about. "Bishuf" is a beautiful song and a testament to the power of how music can connect and communicate so much through sound alone. An exquisite, fragile ballad vividly capturing the conflict between pain and beauty that is inherent in love. Hamed Sinno croons over ethereal, reverberant guitars, between a web of strings, to the deep thud of a bass drum's heartbeat. He sings until his words turn to cries, wailing as the song slowly fades. The first time I listened, I felt like I was with him. I could feel the pain of loss within his cries. All I wanted more than anything in the world was to be able to tell him that it would all be okay, because that's all I wanted to hear myself. "Bishuf" became an anthem of my divorce. A song that helped me navigate the rubble of the only life I knew, and the new one I had to rebuild in its stead.

It wasn't until I put it on my playlist for this writing challenge that I sought out a translation of the lyrics. I discovered a poem that reads, to me, as one about a tumultuous relationship marked by passion, jealousy, longing. How we sometimes choose to be with people, even when it's unhealthy. How we return time and again, to hurt and to be hurt. That often the pain in love is a culmination of two people trying their best and failing.

How did I know his song was mine? How did he know my song was his?

[^1]: A tale as old as time.  
  
[^2]: I understand how the mere fact of writing that can come off as _extremely defensive_. I get it, but you're just gonna have to trust me.  
  
[^3]: I discovered as I was writing this that Mashrou' Leila broke up in 2022 after years of harassment and threats for making their art. Words can't express my anger and sadness, knowing that they're out there, possibly afraid for their lives because they dared to exist. It breaks my heart.
